## Installing JDK (Java Development Kit)

### Windows

First, you need to check if Java is already installed on your system.

To do this, open the Windows Command Prompt and type `java -version`.
If the command prompt displays `java version "11.0.13"`, it means the correct version of Java is already installed.

Otherwise, it is recommended to install Java 11. You can download the file from this [link](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-jdk11-archive-downloads.html).

To download, you will need to have a login or register on the Oracle website. If you prefer not to register, you can use the login details provided on this [useful website](http://bugmenot.com/view/oracle.com).

*Install JDK and copy the folder path.*

Configure environment variables by following these steps:

1. Right-click on the "My Computer" icon on your desktop and select "Properties" from the menu.
2. At the bottom of the page, select "Advanced System Settings."
3. Click on "Environment Variables."
4. Under the "System Variables" section, click "New."
5. In the "Variable Name" field, enter `JAVA_HOME`.
6. In the "Variable Value" field, enter the path to the folder where Java is installed (by default, `C:\Program Files\Java\jdk-11.0.13`, please verify the current version).
7. Click "OK."
8. Click "OK" once again.

### macOS

1. Check for the presence of Java: Open the terminal and type `java --version`.
   If the system displays the Java version, such as `java version "11.0.13"`, proceed to [the next step (installing Gradle)](). Otherwise, continue with the instructions below.

2. Download and install Java: Go to [JDK](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-jdk11-archive-downloads.html), download the `macOS x64 DMG Installer`, and install it.

3. Specify the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable: Find and copy the path where Java is installed (usually `/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk-java-version.jdk/Contents/Home`). Go to your user's home directory using the `cd` command and add the copied path to the `.zshrc` file. You can edit the file using a text editor like `nano`. Save the changes and close the terminal.

   > For macOS 10.5 and later versions, Apple recommends setting the `$JAVA_HOME` variable to `/usr/libexec/javahome`. To do this:
   >
   > - Export `$JAVA_HOME` to the `~/.bash_profile` or `~/.profile` file.
       >   ```bash
   >   $ vim .bash_profile 
   >   export JAVA_HOME=$(/usr/libexec/java_home)
   >   export PATH=$JAVA_HOME/bin:$PATH
   >   ```
   > - Verify the installation in the terminal:
       >   ```bash
   >   $ source .bash_profile
   >   $ echo $JAVA_HOME
   >   ```
   > - The result should be:
       >   ```
   >   /Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk1.8.0_73.jdk/Contents/Home
   >   ```

4. Verify the correctness of the installation: Open the terminal again and enter `java --version`. Make sure the system displays the installed Java version.

5. Proceed to [the next step (installing Gradle)]().
